feat(migrate): `regexManagers` -> `customManagers` (#24451)
renovatebot/renovate: docs/usage/configuration-options.md

renovate.json:

```json
{
  "customManagers": [
    {
      "customType": "regex",
      "fileMatch": ["^example.json$"],
      "matchStringsStrategy": "recursive",
      "matchStrings": [
        "\"backup\":\\s*{[^}]*}",
        "\"test\":\\s*\\{[^}]*}",
        "\"name\":\\s*\"(?<depName>.*)\"[^\"]*\"type\":\\s*\"(?<datasource>.*)\"[^\"]*\"value\":\\s*\"(?<currentValue>.*)\""
      ],
      "datasourceTemplate": "docker"
    },
    {
      "fileMatch": ["^example.json$"],
      "matchStringsStrategy": "recursive",
      "matchStrings": [
        "\"test\":\\s*\\{[^}]*}",
        "\"name\":\\s*\"(?<depName>.*)\"[^\"]*\"type\":\\s*\"(?<datasource>.*)\"[^\"]*\"value\":\\s*\"(?<currentValue>.*)\""
      ],
      "datasourceTemplate": "docker"
    }
  ]
}
```

example.json:

```json
{
  "backup": {
    "test": {
      "name": "grafana/loki",
      "type": "docker",
      "value": "1.6.1"
    }
  },
  "setup": {
    "test": {
      "name": "python",
      "type": "docker",
      "value": "3.9.0"
    }
  }
}
```

#### combination

This option allows the possibility to combine the values of multiple lines inside a file.

> While using multiple lines is also possible using both other `matchStringStrategy` values, the `combination` approach is less susceptible to white space or line breaks stopping a match.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can combine multiple lines with `matchStringStrategy` values, but the `combination` approach is less susceptible to white space or line breaks stopping a match.
```

> `combination` will only match at most one dependency per file, so if you want to update multiple dependencies using `combination` you have to define multiple custom managers.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`combination` can only match _one_ dependency per file.
To update multiple dependencies with `combination` you must define multiple custom managers.
```

Matched group values will be merged to form a single dependency.

renovate.json:

```json
{
  "customManagers": [
    {
      "customType": "regex",
      "fileMatch": ["^main.yml$"],
      "matchStringsStrategy": "combination",
      "matchStrings": [
        "prometheus_image:\\s*\"(?<depName>.*)\"\\s*//",
        "prometheus_version:\\s*\"(?<currentValue>.*)\"\\s*//"
      ],
      "datasourceTemplate": "docker"
    },
    {
      "fileMatch": ["^main.yml$"],
      "matchStringsStrategy": "combination",
      "matchStrings": [
        "thanos_image:\\s*\"(?<depName>.*)\"\\s*//",
        "thanos_version:\\s*\"(?<currentValue>.*)\"\\s*//"
      ],
      "datasourceTemplate": "docker"
    }
  ]
}
```

> Ansible variable file ( yaml ):

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Ansible variable file (YAML):
```

It will be compiled using Handlebars and the regex `groups` result.

### datasourceTemplate

If the `datasource` for a dependency is not captured with a named group then it can be defined in config using this field.
It will be compiled using Handlebars and the regex `groups` result.

### depTypeTemplate

If `depType` cannot be captured with a named capture group in `matchString` then it can be defined manually using this field.
It will be compiled using Handlebars and the regex `groups` result.

### versioningTemplate

If the `versioning` for a dependency is not captured with a named group then it can be defined in config using this field.
It will be compiled using Handlebars and the regex `groups` result.

### registryUrlTemplate

If the `registryUrls` for a dependency is not captured with a named group then it can be defined in config using this field.
It will be compiled using Handlebars and the regex `groups` result.

### autoReplaceStringTemplate

Allows overwriting how the matched string is replaced.
This allows for some migration strategies.
E.g. moving from one Docker image repository to another one.

> helm-values.yaml:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`helm-values.yaml`:
```

```yaml
# The image of the service <registry>/<repo>/<image>:<tag>
image: my.old.registry/aRepository/andImage:1.18-alpine
```

> regex definition:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The regex definition:
```

```json
{
  "customManagers": [
    {
      "customType": "regex",
      "fileMatch": ["values.yaml$"],
      "matchStrings": [
        "image:\\s+(?<depName>my\\.old\\.registry/aRepository/andImage):(?<currentValue>[^\\s]+)"
      ],
      "depNameTemplate": "my.new.registry/aRepository/andImage",
      "autoReplaceStringTemplate": "image: {{{depName}}}:{{{newValue}}}",
      "datasourceTemplate": "docker"
    }
  ]
}
```

This will lead to following update where `1.21-alpine` is the newest version of `my.new.registry/aRepository/andImage`:

```yaml
# The image of the service <registry>/<repo>/<image>:<tag>
image: my.new.registry/aRepository/andImage:1.21-alpine
```

## customizeDashboard

> You can use the `customizeDashboard` object to customize dependency dashboard.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You may use the `customizeDashboard` object to customize the Dependency Dashboard.
```

Supported fields:

- `repoProblemsHeader`: This field will replace the header of the Repository Problems in dependency dashboard issue.

### defaultRegistryUrlTemplate

> `registryUrl` which is used, if none is return by extraction.

Reviewer: > `registryUrl` which is used, if none is return by extraction.

This sentence is hard to understand. @rarkins can you rewrite this? I don't know what it should say.

Reviewer 2: Suggestion below

> As this is a template it can be dynamically set. E.g. add the `packageName` as part of the URL:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As this is a template it can be dynamically set.
E.g. add the `packageName` as part of the URL:
```

E.g. moving from one Docker image repository to another one.

`helm-values.yaml`:

```yaml
# The image of the service <registry>/<repo>/<image>:<tag>
image: my.old.registry/aRepository/andImage:1.18-alpine
```

The regex definition:

```json
{
  "customManagers": [
    {
      "customType": "regex",
      "fileMatch": ["values.yaml$"],
      "matchStrings": [
        "image:\\s+(?<depName>my\\.old\\.registry/aRepository/andImage):(?<currentValue>[^\\s]+)"
      ],
      "depNameTemplate": "my.new.registry/aRepository/andImage",
      "autoReplaceStringTemplate": "image: {{{depName}}}:{{{newValue}}}",
      "datasourceTemplate": "docker"
    }
  ]
}
```

This will lead to following update where `1.21-alpine` is the newest version of `my.new.registry/aRepository/andImage`:

```yaml
# The image of the service <registry>/<repo>/<image>:<tag>
image: my.new.registry/aRepository/andImage:1.21-alpine
```

## customizeDashboard

You may use the `customizeDashboard` object to customize the Dependency Dashboard.

Supported fields:

- `repoProblemsHeader`: This field will replace the header of the Repository Problems in dependency dashboard issue.

### defaultRegistryUrlTemplate

> `registryUrl` which is used, if none is return by extraction.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This field is used to build a `registryUrl` for the dependency.
It is not needed if either:
 - The dependency can be found with the default `registryUrls` of the datasource (e.g. npmjs registry if the datasource is `npm`), or
 - The regex groups you specified as part of the matching already include a `registryUrl` group
```

Use `customDatasources` to fetch releases from APIs or statically hosted sites and Renovate has no own datasource.
These datasources can be referred by `customManagers` or can be used to overwrite default datasources.

For more details see the [`custom` datasource documentation](/modules/datasource/custom/).

## customManagers

Use `customManagers` entries to configure the custom managers in Renovate.

You can define custom managers to handle:

- Proprietary file formats or conventions
- Popular file formats not yet supported as a manager by Renovate

Currently we only have one custom manager.
The `regex` manager which is based on using Regular Expression named capture groups.

You must have a named capture group matching (e.g. `(?<depName>.*)`) _or_ configure its corresponding template (e.g. `depNameTemplate`) for these fields:

- `datasource`
- `depName`
- `currentValue`

Use named capture group matching _or_ set a corresponding template.
We recommend you use only _one_ of these methods, or you'll get confused.

We recommend that you also tell Renovate what `versioning` to use.
If the `versioning` field is missing, then Renovate defaults to using `semver` versioning.

> For more details and examples, see our [documentation for the `regex` manager](/modules/manager/regex/).

Author: That is because we have discussed a bit about the regex manager above.
